## Data Representation of an Image
Pixels value $x_{j,k} \in [0,1] \iff \text{input } \v x$

## The Convolutional Layer
Use a hidden layer with as many hidden units as there are input variables
Order those hidden unit -> a matrix

### Sparse Interactions
Most of the parameters in a corresponding dense layer are forced to be zero.

### Parameter Sharing
The same parameter is presented in multiple places in the network.
In a convolutional layer, the set of parameters for the different hidden unites are all the same, it called a filter.

The convolution can be written as:
$$
q_{ij} = h(\sum_{k=1}^F \sum_{l=1}^F x_{i+k-1, j+l-1} W_{k,l})
$$
### Convolutional Layer with Strides
The stride controls how many pixels the filter shifts over the image at each step.

The convolutional layer with stride can be expressed as:
$$
q_{ij} = h(\sum_{k=1}^F \sum_{l=1}^F x_{s(i-1)+k, s(j-1)+l} W_{k,l})
$$
### Pooling layer
Another way of summarizing the information in previous layers is achieved by using pooling.
- Max pooling
- Average pooling
In pooling layers, we also use strides to condense the information, meaning that region is shifted by $s > 1$ pixels.

Average pooling:
$$
\tilde{q}_{ij} = \frac 1 {F^2} \sum_{k=1}^F \sum_{l=1}^F q_{s(i-1)+k, s(j-1)+1}
$$
Max pooling:
$$
\tilde q_{ij} = \max_{k=1,l=1}^F q_{s(i-1)+k, s(j-1)+l}
$$
Pooling can make the model more invariant to small translations of the input, meaning that if we translate the input by a small amount, many of the pooling outputs do not change

### Multiple Channels
Add more filter to encode more properties of the dataset.

We add multiple filters, each produces its own set of hidden units - a channel

-> layer tensor (rows x columns x channels)

Stack convolutional layers, each depends on all the channels in the previous layer

If we collect all filter parameters in one weight tensor $\mat W$, that tensor will be of dimension (filter rows x filter columns x input channels x output channels)

With multiple filters in each convolutional layer, each of the, can be sensitive to different features, enabling a rich representation of the images in our training data.

The convolution layer with multiple input channels and output channels can be described mathematically as:
$$
q_{ijn}^{(l)} = h(\sum_{k=1}^{F_l} \sum_{l=1}^{F_l} \sum_{m=1}^{U_{l-1}} q_{s_l(i-1)+k-1, s_l(j-1)+l, m}^{(l-1)} W_{k,l,m,n}^{(l)} )
$$

## Full CNN Architecture
A full CNN architecture consists of multiple convolutional layers

For predictive task -> decrease the number of rows and columns in the hidden layers as we proceed through the network but instead increase the number of channels to enable the network to encode more high level features.

Usually end the network with one or more dense layers. if classification, place a soft max layer at the very end to get the output